
USERGUIDE

Table of contents

1. Starting the application
2. Configuration
2.1 Configuration in server and standalone mode
2.2 Configuration in client mode
3. Server mode
4. Client and standalone mode
4.1 GUI overview
4.2 Retrieving all records
4.3 Searching for records
4.4 Booking records

---


1. Starting the application

As required in the assignment, the application can be started by invoking the runme.jar
with either no or exactly one command-line argument that specifies the application mode:

- java -jar runme.jar
  starts the application in client mode
- java -jar runme.jar alone
  starts the application in standalone mode
- java -jar runme.jar server
  starts the application in server mode


2. Configuration

Right after the application started and before the requested components (server, client) are created,
the configuration parameters are initialized.

The configuration is loaded from the suncertify.properties file in the current working directory.
If the file does not exist or is not accessible, the properties are initialized with empty strings.

The user is then prompted to review and edit the configuration parameters, that are applicable to the
selected application mode:

- Standalone mode:
  Path and name of the data file
- Client mode:
  Name and port of the server to connect to
- Server mode:
  Path and name of the data file

At this point, the user may choose to terminate the application by pressing the "Exit" button.

When the user confirms the configuration, the parameters are validated.

If validation fails, an error message is displayed and the dialog to edit the parameters is still displayed.
If validation succeeds, the properties are persisted in the suncertify.properties file in the current working directory.
Again, it is not a fatal error, if it is not possible to access the properties file.

It is not possible to change the configuration, after the components have been started.
If configuration parameters need to be changed, the application must be terminated and restarted.


2.1 Configuration in server and standalone mode

In server and standalone mode, there is only a single configuration parameter:
- Database location
  the absolute path and name of the data file to be used.

The user can directly enter the parameter value in the textfield.
As an alternative, by pressing the "..." button, a file chooser dialog opens, that allows the user
to select a data file.

By pressing the "Exit" button, the application is terminated and no components are started.
After pressing the "Start" button, the specified parameters are validated.

Validation checks, if a file with the specified name actually exists.

If validation fails, a message is displayed and the dialog to edit the parameters is still displayed.
If validation succeeds, the configuration parameters are persisted and the appropriate components are started.


2.2 Configuration in client mode

In client mode, there are two configuration parameters:
- Server address
  the server's address, i.e. the host part of the URL used to access the RMI registry
  For a server running on the same machine, the value would be "localhost"
- Server port
  the server's port, i.e. the port part of the URL used to access the RMI registry
  This application uses the standard server port "1099", but different values may be possible,
  if connecting to another implementation.
  
The user can directly enter the parameter values in the textfields.

By pressing the "Exit" button, the application is terminated and no components are started.
After pressing the "Connect to server" button, the specified parameters are validated.

Validation checks, if the server address parameters can be used to build a well-formed URL and
if the server port parameter is actually a valid integer.

If validation fails, a message is displayed and the dialog to edit the parameters is still displayed.
If validation succeeds, the configuration parameters are persisted and the appropriate components are started.


3. Server mode

When the server was successfully started, a single frame with a menu bar is displayed.

The only operation available is to stop the server.
To do this, select the "Stop server" menu item from the "File" menu.


4. Client- and Standalone mode

From the user's point of view, there is no difference in the way to invoke the application's use cases in client and standalone mode.

In both cases, the same GUI is presented to the user, only the actual operations are invoked either locally (standalone mode) or remotely (client mode).
The user does not experience a difference between these modes, with the only exception that if a network error occurs in client mode,
a special error message is displayed, that can not happen in standalone mode.


4.1 GUI overview

The client GUI (in client and standalone mode) consists of the following parts:

- a menu bar with a single menu item ("File" > "Quit")
- a JTable component in the center of the frame
  used to display the result of the latest operation (either all records or a search result)
- a panel at the bottom of the frame with the following components:
  - a labelled textfield to enter the name parameter for search operations
  - a labelled textfield to enter the location parameter for search operations
  - a button to search for records that match the specified criteria
  - a button to retrieve all records

To stop the application, users can either close the window or select the "Quit" menu item from the "File" menu.
In both cases the shutdown hook runs and releases the resources used by the application.


4.2 Retrieving all records

To retrieve all records, the user must click on the "show all" button (in the lower right corner of the panel).

The result of the operation is presented in the central JTable component.
If the result does not fit into the current window's size, a scroll bar is rendered around the table.


4.3 Searching for records

To search for records, the user first needs to specify the search criteria.

The name search parameter needs to be entered in the upper textfield (labelled "Name").
The location search parameter needs to be entered in the lower textfield (labelled "Location").
If a field is left blank, the corresponding attribute is not used to filter the result.

By clicking on the "search" button in the upper right corner of the panel, the search operation is invoked.
The search operation returns all valid records, where the specified search attributes exactly match the corresponding fields
(including capitalization).

The result of the search operation is presented in the central JTable component.
If the result does not fit into the current window's size, a scroll bar is rendered around the table.


4.4 Booking records

The record to be booked must have been discovered by the latest search operation and must be displayed in the JTable component.

To book the record, the user must double-click on the corresponding entry in the table.

The system then asks for confirmation of the booking.
If the dialog is confirmed, the booking operation is attempted.

If the booking operation fails, an error message is displayed.
If the booking operation succeeeds, a confirmation message is displayed and the content of the JTable component is updated to reflect the
change of the owner attribute.